one of the biggest issues when working
with an AVR on a breadboard is
configuring the chip to work with an
external crystal if you mess up the
fuses the only way to recover from that
is to use a high voltage paolo
programmer most of us use a ISP
programmer or a serial programmer for
the breadboard to resolve this issue I
actually built a high voltage serial a
high voltage parallel fuse resetar so
it's not a full programmer it just
resets the chips for the twenty eight
and a vrs currently I have a 18 mega
eight configured to work with a 10
megahertz
external crystal I ran AVR goon and as
you can see the few settings are for
using the X arm crystal what I'm going
to do is I'm going to turn off the power
supply pull the crystal out and show you
that AVR dude will fail to find the chip
this time it will give us the standard
error so this will simulate a locked
chip for us to use the device I built
we basically pull the serial programmer
out and I actually configured it on the
same breadboard so I'll just move this
over so I can plug in everything so you
can see
how it works in action what I'll do the
first time is I will actually run it
I'll actually powered up and that first
green light comes on to show that the
fuse resetar is ready to go when I hit
the button it's going to try to reset
the fuses the flashing green LED tells
us that it failed to find the actual
chip and the reason being that I did not
plug up the 12-volt power supply my
product supply actually provides me a 12
volt out so I'll just wired it up and
hit the button again this time all three
lights came on and fuse fuses were
successfully reset I will actually pull
everything back apart and set it out the
way it was originally so it works with
the solar programmer once again and
we'll try to run AVR dude on it again
this time without the external crystal
turn on the supply and up forgot to plug
in the reset wire now let's plug in
success as you can see the fuses are set
to the default values this contraption
currently works for all 28 10 a VRS that
I have in stock which are the the mega 8
the mega 168 the mega 328 I have all of
the default few settings configured if
you order use this on a chip that I
currently do not recognize we will get a
different pattern of LEDs of flashing
and some solid to tell me the state
thank you for watching